.\"                                      Hey, EMACS: -*- nroff -*-
.TH ainsl 1 "8 march 2012" "FAI 4"
.\" Please adjust this date whenever revising the manpage.
.\"
.\" Some roff macros, for reference:
.\" .nh        disable hyphenation
.\" .hy        enable hyphenation
.\" .ad l      left justify
.\" .ad b      justify to both left and right margins
.\" .nf        disable filling
.\" .fi        enable filling
.\" .br        insert line break
.\" .sp <n>    insert n+1 empty lines
.\" for manpage-specific macros, see man(7)
.SH NAME
ainsl \- AppendIfNoSuchLine
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B ainsl
.RI [ options ] " FILE LINE [PATTERN]"
.SH DESCRIPTION
Add LINE to the end of FILE if this file does not contain this line
already. If PATTERN is given, then the LINE is only appended if
PATTERN is not found in the file.

Since ainsl is written in Perl, you can use Perl's regular expressions
in PATTERN. If PATTERN is not given, LINE is used instead for matching a line in
FILE. Then LINE may also contain the anchors '^' and '$' which
are only treated specialy at the beginning or end of the pattern and
are used for matching, not when adding the line. Additionally,
the following characters are escaped in LINE: ( ) +

The exit code returned by ainsl is 0 on success and non-zero
on error.  See the section EXIT CODES.

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-a
Autocreate file if it does not exist.
.TP
.B \-D
Create debugging output.
.TP
.B \-h
Show help, version and summary of options.
.TP
.BI "\-n "
Print the actions, but do not execute them.
.TP
.BI "\-Q "
Quote all metacharacters in pattern. Uses perl's \\Q function.
.TP
.BI "\-q "
Quote * and + metacharacters in pattern.
.TP
.BI "\-s "
Convert white space in LINE or PATTERN to '\\s+' regexp for matching.
.TP
.B \-N
Don't prepend '$AINSL_TARGET/' to filename, even if it is set.
.TP
.B \-v
Create verbose output.

.SH NOTES
.br
If the variable AINSL_TARGET is defined, its value will become the
prefix for the filename. This is used in FAI for changing files in
/target without specifying /target in the file name.

.SH EXAMPLES
.br
ainsl \-v /etc/fstab '/dev/fd0  /floppy  auto  users,noauto 0 0'

Append the entry for the floppy device to /etc/fstab, if this line
isn't already included.

ainsl \-s /etc/exports '/srv/www @linuxhosts(async,rw) backup(async,ro)'

Add exports entry without exactly matching spaces.

.SH EXIT CODES
.TP
.B 0
Success: Either FILE contains the LINE/PATTERN or LINE was appended to FILE.
.TP
.B 13
Permissions do not allow writing to FILE and LINE/PATTERN was not found in file.
.TP
.B 28
FILE cannot be written because the filesystem has no space and LINE/PATTERN was not
found in file.
.TP
.B 30
FILE cannot be written because the filesystem is read-only and LINE/PATTERN was not
found in file.

.SH NOTES
This is a similar function to AppendIfNoSuchLine from cfengine(8).
.SH SEE ALSO
.br
This program is part of FAI (Fully Automatic Installation).  See the FAI manual
for more information on how to use ainsl.  The FAI homepage is https://fai-project.org.

.SH AUTHOR
Thomas Lange <lange@informatik.uni-koeln.de>
