.\"                                      Hey, EMACS: -*- nroff -*-
.TH bootsector 8 "January 2003"
.\" Please adjust this date whenever revising the manpage.
.\"
.\" Some roff macros, for reference:
.\" .nh        disable hyphenation
.\" .hy        enable hyphenation
.\" .ad l      left justify
.\" .ad b      justify to both left and right margins
.\" .nf        disable filling
.\" .fi        enable filling
.\" .br        insert line break
.\" .sp <n>    insert n+1 empty lines
.\" for manpage-specific macros, see man(7)
.SH NAME
bootsector \- enable or disable a boot sector
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B bootsector
.RI [ options ] " DEVICE"
.SH DESCRIPTION

Read or write the magic number (the last two bytes) of a boot
sector. Writing 0x0000 to it disables booting from this boot sector.
The value 0xAA55 enables booting from this boot sector.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BI \-e
Enable the boot sector
.TP
.BI -d
Disable the boot sector
.TP
.B \-l
List the magic number hexadecimal
.TP
.B \-D
Create debugging output.
.TP
.B \-h
Print this help.
.TP
.B \-v
List the magic number in a verbose way
.SH EXAMPLES
.br
.nf
# bootsector -e /dev/hda
# bootsector -l /dev/hda
0000000 aa55

# bootsector -d /dev/hda
# bootsector -l /dev/hda
0000000 0000
# bootsector -v /dev/hda
Boot sector /dev/hda disabled.
.fi
.SH SEE ALSO
.br
This program is part of FAI (Fully Automatic Installation).  See the FAI manual
for more information on how to use ftar.  The FAI homepage is http://www.informatik.uni-koeln.de/fai.
.SH AUTHOR
Thomas Lange <lange@informatik.uni-koeln.de>
