.\"                                      Hey, EMACS: -*- nroff -*-
.if \n(zZ=1 .ig zZ
.if \n(zY=1 .ig zY
.TH fai-mirror 1 "7 September 2007" "FAI 3.2"
.\" Please adjust this date whenever revising the manpage.
.\"
.\" Some roff macros, for reference:
.\" .nh        disable hyphenation
.\" .hy        enable hyphenation
.\" .ad l      left justify
.\" .ad b      justify to both left and right margins
.\" .nf        disable filling
.\" .fi        enable filling
.\" .br        insert line break
.\" .sp <n>    insert n+1 empty lines
.\" for manpage-specific macros, see man(7)
.de }1
.ds ]X \&\\*(]B\\
.nr )E 0
.if !"\\$1"" .nr )I \\$1n
.}f
.ll \\n(LLu
.in \\n()Ru+\\n(INu+\\n()Iu
.ti \\n(INu
.ie !\\n()Iu+\\n()Ru-\w\\*(]Xu-3p \{\\*(]X
.br\}
.el \\*(]X\h|\\n()Iu+\\n()Ru\c
.}f
..
.\"
.\" File Name macro.  This used to be `.PN', for Path Name,
.\" but Sun doesn't seem to like that very much.
.\"
.de FN
\fI\|\\$1\|\fP
..
.SH NAME
fai-mirror \- create and manage a partitial mirror for FAI

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B fai-mirror
.RI [OPTION]... 
DIRECTORY
.br

.SH DESCRIPTION
This command creates a partitial mirror of Debian packages. It can
be used to create the fai CD or as a local mirror when you can't
download the whole Debian mirror. By default, the mirror will contain
all packages of all classes used in the configuration space (/srv/fai/config/package_config).

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BI \-B
Do not add packages included in base.tgz and packages defined in
make-fai-nfsroot.conf to the mirror. By default all those packages are
included in the mirror.
.TP
.B \-C CFDIR
Use CFDIR as configuration directory. Default is /etc/fai. You can
also set the environment variable FAI_ETC_DIR.
.TP
.BI "\-c " CLASS[,CLASS]
Use only this list of classes for building the mirror. Can't be used
in conjunction with -x.
.TP
.BI \-h
Show simle help and version.
.TP
.BI "\-x " CLASS[,CLASS]
Exclude these classes. Do not add the packages of these classes to
the mirror.
.TP
.B \-p
Preserve existing sources.list. NOT YET IMPLEMENTED.
.TP
.B \-v
Create verbose output.

.SH EXAMPLES
.br
   # fai-mirror -v /files/scratch/mirror

Creates a partitial mirror in the directory /files/scratch/mirror
using all classes.

   # fai-mirror -v -cDEFAULT,DEMO /debmirror

Creates a partitial mirror containing all packages used in the classes
DEFAULT and DEMO.


.SH NOTES
You only need root permissions if you access the official Debian
mirror via NFS.

.SH SEE ALSO
.br
This program is part of FAI (Fully Automatic Installation).
The FAI homepage is http://www.informatik.uni-koeln.de/fai. 
.TP
\fBmake-fai-nfsroot\fP(8), \fBinstall_packages\fP(8)
.PD

.SH FILES
.PD 0
.TP
.FN /etc/fai/fai.conf
The FAI configuration file.

.TP
.FN /etc/fai/make-fai-nfsroot.conf
The FAI configuration file for the nfsroot.
.TP

.FN /etc/fai/apt/sources.list
Package resource definition for FAI.
.TP

.FN /srv/fai/config/package_config/
The FAI package configuration directory. This directory is defined by
the variable FAI_CONFIGDIR.

.SH AUTHOR
Thomas Lange <lange@informatik.uni-koeln.de>
