.\"                                      Hey, EMACS: -*- nroff -*-
.TH fai-monitor 8 "September 2015" "FAI 5"

.SH NAME
fai-monitor \- fai monitor daemon
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B fai-monitor
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B fai-monitor
receives messages from all install clients on port 4711 and prints
them to stdout.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B "-p " port
Define port to listen on. Default is port 4711.
.TP
.B "-b "
Call fai-chboot for the install client if the task install was finished
properly. Default is not to call fai-chboot.
.TP
.B "-i"
Use IP address of connecting host when calling fai-chboot. This can only be used
if the host has the same IP while installing as when running.
.TP
.B "-l FILE"
Logfile. Default is standard out in non-daemon mode and "/var/log/fai-monitor.log"
in daemon mode.
.TP
.B "-t TIMEOUT"
Timeout for bad clients. 0 to disable.
.TP
.B "-d"
Daemon mode.
.TP
.B "-P FILE"
PID-file. Default is "/var/run/fai-monitor.pid". Used only if starting in daemon
mode.
.TP
.B "-T"
Print timestamps in the log.
.SH NOTES
Normally, the output will be piped to fai-monitor-gui, a GUI which displays
all information.

fai-monitor reads variables from /var/log/fai/variables (key=value pair
format) and replies to request from clients if they have the format:
VARIABLE <VARNAME>. For e.g. if the clients sends "VARIABLE FAI_VERSION",
fai-monitor will reply with OK and the value of this variable
(e.g. "OK 4.5.6") if this variable is defined, otherwise it will reply
with UNKNOW and repeats the VARNAME (e.g. "UNKNOWN FAI_VERSION").
.SH SEE ALSO
.br
This program is part of FAI (Fully Automatic Installation).  See the FAI manual
for more information on how to use fai-monitor.  The FAI homepage is http://fai-project.org.
.SH AUTHOR
Thomas Lange <lange@informatik.uni-koeln.de>
