.\" Hey, EMACS: -*- nroff -*-
.\" Please adjust this date whenever revising the manpage.
.\"
.\" Some roff macros, for reference:
.\" .nh        disable hyphenation
.\" .hy        enable hyphenation
.\" .ad l      left justify
.\" .ad b      justify to both left and right margins
.\" .nf        disable filling
.\" .fi        enable filling
.\" .br        insert line break
.\" .sp <n>    insert n+1 empty lines
.\" for manpage-specific macros, see man(7)
.TH "fai-do-scripts" "1" "October 2022" "FAI 6" ""
.SH "NAME"
fai\-do\-scripts \- call configuration scripts
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
.B fai\-do\-scripts
.RI [OPTION] " DIRECTORY"
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
This command is only called internally by FAI and not directly by the user.

fai\-do\-scripts executes all scripts in DIRECTORY which are also a
defined class. If the name of the class is a directory, all scripts
that match `<CLASSNAME>/^[0\-9][0\-9].*' (starting with two digits) in this
directory are executed.  It is
possible to have several scripts of different types (shell,
python, ruby, cfengine,...) be executed for one class.

.SH "OPTIONS"
.TP
.B \-h
Show help, version and summary of options.
.TP
.B \-L DIR
Write log files to DIR.
.TP
.B \-n
Show type of scripts that would be executed, but do not execute them.

.SH "EXAMPLES"
.br
In FAI, fai\-do\-scripts is used in the following way:

   # fai\-do\-scripts /fai/scripts

.SH "NOTES"
The output of the scripts is also written to $LOGDIR/scripts.log.
The file $LOGDIR/status.log lists all scripts executed and if they
finished with success or failure.

If the variable $FAI_USE_OLD_SCRIPT_LOGS is set to 1, the old style
log file names (different name for every type of script) are used.
This may be removed in the future.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.br
This program is part of FAI (Fully Automatic Installation). The FAI
homepage is http:///fai\-project.org.

.SH "AUTHOR"
Written by Thomas Lange <lange@cs.uni\-koeln.de>
