.\"                                      Hey, EMACS: -*- nroff -*-
.TH fai-debconf 1 "23 july 2006" "FAI 3"
.\" Please adjust this date whenever revising the manpage.
.\"
.\" Some roff macros, for reference:
.\" .nh        disable hyphenation
.\" .hy        enable hyphenation
.\" .ad l      left justify
.\" .ad b      justify to both left and right margins
.\" .nf        disable filling
.\" .fi        enable filling
.\" .br        insert line break
.\" .sp <n>    insert n+1 empty lines
.\" for manpage-specific macros, see man(7)
.SH NAME
fai-debconf \- set debconf values using classes
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B fai-debconf
.RI [OPTION] " DIRECTORY"
.SH DESCRIPTION
fai-debconf reads files in DIRECTORY which are also a defined
class. If the name of the class is a directory, all files in this
directory are read. The files must have the format of debconf-get-selections(1).
All this input is used to call debconf-set-selections(1). This is done
in the chroot environment, if the variable $ROOTCMD ist set. After
setting the debconf values, dpkg-reconfigure(8) is called for every
package which is installed and for which some debconf data was set.

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-h
Show help, version and summary of options.
.TP
.B \-s
Skip reconfiguration of packages. Only set values in debconf database.
.TP
.B \-v
Create verbose output.
.TP
.B \-f
Run dpkg-reconfigure for all packages FAI has information for, not only for
those we modified the entries in the database.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR debconf-get-selections (1),
.BR debconf-set-selections (1),
.BR dpkg-reconfigure (8)

.br
This program is part of FAI (Fully Automatic Installation). The FAI
homepage is http://www.informatik.uni-koeln.de/fai.

.SH AUTHOR
Written by Thomas Lange <lange@informatik.uni-koeln.de>
