.\"                                      Hey, EMACS: -*- nroff -*-
.TH fai.conf 5 "December 2013" "FAI 4.0"
.\" Please adjust this date whenever revising the manpage.
.\"
.\" Some roff macros, for reference:
.\" .nh        disable hyphenation
.\" .hy        enable hyphenation
.\" .ad l      left justify
.\" .ad b      justify to both left and right margins
.\" .nf        disable filling
.\" .fi        enable filling
.\" .br        insert line break
.\" .sp <n>    insert n+1 empty lines
.\" for manpage-specific macros, see man(7)
.SH NAME
fai.conf \- FAI Configuration
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B /etc/fai/fai.conf
.SH DESCRIPTION
The configuration for a target host consists of two parts:
.IP \(bu
The
\fINFSROOT\fP, a very basic yet complete root file system,
which is exported to clients.
The NFSROOT is built using
.BR fai-make-nfsroot (8).
.IP \(bu
The
\fIconfiguration space\fP, which is loaded as one of the first steps of a FAI run.
Several tools and protocols are supported for maintaining and accessing the
configuration space.
See
.BR FAI_CONFIG_SRC
below.
.LP
.BR fai.conf
defines the essential options to successfully start a FAI run.
It must be valid
.BR bash (1)
code.
This configuration file is NOT copied into the nfsroot by fai-make-nfsroot.
.SH VARIABLES

.TP
\fBFAI_CONFIG_SRC\fP
This variable defines how to access the configuration space. It
defines the protocol, the server and the location of the config space.

For an initial installation of a client this variable is defined by using fai-chboot(8).
If you do a fai softupdate, you can set the value in /etc/fai/fai.conf
or by using the option --cspace.

.LP
The following protocols and URL schemes are currently supported:
.IP \(bu
NFS: nfs://<server>/<exported directory>

Example: nfs://faiserver/srv/fai/config
.IP \(bu
Local directory: file://<directory>

The directory has to be an absolute path. So, this URL always starts
with three slashes like this: file:///
.IP \(bu
CVS: cvs[+ssh]://<user>@<host>/<cvs root> <module>[=<tag>]

The config space is received from a cvs checkout.
.IP \(bu
Subversion: svn[+(file|http|https|ssh)]://[<user>@]<host>/<repository>

The config space checked out from a subversion repository using
several protocol variants. Checkouts without a user name are also supported.
.IP \(bu
Git: git[+<protocol>]://<git path>

The config space checked out from a
git repository, host can be empty. Also supported is git+http.
.IP \(bu
Mercurial: hg+(http|https)://<hg path>
.IP \(bu
HTTP: http://<server>/<filename>
where <filename> is a (compressed) tar archive. For verification purposes, also
an
.BR md5sum (1)
generated hash must exist at the same location as <filename>.md5.

The config space will be downloaded from the given location via HTTP.
Furthermore +path/tarfile.md5+ will be downloaded and the md5sum will be
checked. +tarfile+ will be extracted by ftar(8), and thus needs to have
a recognized suffix, such as .tar.gz or tar.xz.


.TP
\fBLOGUSER\fP Account name on the install server to save log files and call
.BR fai-chboot (8).
At the end of an installation,
.BR fai (8)
may connect to the install server using
.BR FAI_LOGPROTO
(see below) to store the generated log files and to change the network boot
configuration of the target host.
To fully enable this, configure .rhosts and PAM such that the configured user
can log in from all install clients without password.
This account should have write permissions for /srv/tftp/fai. For example, you
can use write permissions for the group linuxadm. chgrp linuxadm
/srv/tftp/fai;chmod g+w /srv/tftp/fai.
If the variable is undefined, this feature is disabled.

.TP
\fBFAI_LOGPROTO\fP Protocol for saving logs
Supported values are: ssh (default), rsh, ftp and none. This will only be used
if also
.BR LOGUSER
is set.

ssh: Use the scp command to copy the log files to the log server.

rsh: Use the rcp command to copy the log files to the log server.

ftp: This option saves logs to the remote FTP server defined by the
$LOGSERVER variable ($SERVER value is used if not set). Connection
to the FTP server is done as user $LOGUSER using password
$LOGPASSWD.  The FTP server log directory is defined in
$LOGREMOTEDIR. These variables are also defined in file
'fai.conf'. You need write access for the $LOGREMOTEDIR on the FTP
server. All files in the directory /tmp/fai are copied to the
FTP server following this example:

  ftp://$LOGUSER:$LOGPASSWD@$LOGSERVER/$LOGREMOTEDIR/

none: Don't save the log files to the install server.


.TP
\fBFAI_DEBMIRROR\fP Access Debian mirror via NFS-mounted directory
If defined, FAI mounts the NFS share to $MNTPOINT during installation.
Example: installserver:/srv/debianmirror

.TP
.B FAI_MONITOR_PORT
The port to which FAI sents messages, if the fai-monitor is
running. Default to 4711. See also fai-monitor(8). This variable has
to be set inside the nfsroot before the configuration space is
available.

.SH SEE ALSO

.BR fai (8),
.BR fai\-make-nfsroot (8),
.BR fai\-setup (8),
.BR fai\-mirror (1),
.BR fai\-cd (8)

.br
This file is part of FAI (Fully Automatic Installation).  See the FAI
manual for more information.  The FAI homepage is http://fai-project.org.

.SH AUTHOR
This man page was written by Michael Tautschnig <mt@debian.org>.
