.\"                                      Hey, EMACS: -*- nroff -*-
.TH fcopy 8 "22 march 2006" "FAI 2.10"
.\" Please adjust this date whenever revising the manpage.
.\"
.\" Some roff macros, for reference:
.\" .nh        disable hyphenation
.\" .hy        enable hyphenation
.\" .ad l      left justify
.\" .ad b      justify to both left and right margins
.\" .nf        disable filling
.\" .fi        enable filling
.\" .br        insert line break
.\" .sp <n>    insert n+1 empty lines
.\" for manpage-specific macros, see man(7)
.SH NAME
fcopy \- copy files using classes
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B fcopy
.RI [ options ] " SOURCE" ...
.SH DESCRIPTION
Copy a file from SOURCE to its target using classes.
It also sets permission modes, owner and group.
Each SOURCE argument is a directory which contains one or more
template files for the source file to copy.  Depending on the list of
defined classes, one file of the source directory is selected and
copied to the target.  The target filename is the name of the source
directory.

The exit code returned by fcopy is 0 if all files are copied
successfully and >0 if an error occurs.  For every successfully copied
file, a log message is printed to standard output.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
Options -c, -s, -t (or their analog variables) and a SOURCE are required.
.TP
.B \-B
Remove backup files with suffix .pre_fcopy. You can also set the
environment variable FCOPY_NOBACKUP to 1.
.TP
.BI "\-b " dir
Don't copy files to file.pre_fcopy, but use hierarchy under "dir" instead.
The same effect is achieved by setting environment variable FAI_BACKUPDIR. 
.TP
.BI "\-c " class[,class]
Define classes.  Multiple classes must be comma separated.  If not
specified, use the shell environment variable $classes (space
separated).  The first class has lowest priority.
.TP
.BI "\-C " file
Read classes from \fIfile\fR.  Lines can contain multiple classes which 
are space separated.  Lines starting with # are comments.
.TP
.BI \-d
Delete target file if no class applies.
.TP
.B \-D
Create debugging output.
.TP
.BI "\-F " file
Read list of sources from \fIfile\fR.  One SOURCE per line.
.TP
.B \-h
Show help, version and summary of options.
.TP
.B \-i
Ignore warnings about no matching class and always exit with 0.
.TP
.BI "\-I " dir[,dir]
Override list of ignored directories when recursing. If not given, it is 
taken from $FCOPY_IGNOREDIRS and as a last chance an internal list of known
revision control system's metadata is used (CVS, .cvs, {arch}, .arch\-ids).
.TP
.B \-l
Do not copy if destination is a symbolic link
.TP
.BI "\-L " file
Log SOURCE and used class to \fIfile\fR.  Output format is
.br
SOURCE CLASS COMMENT
.br
where COMMENT gives some information about why the file has been 
preserved (especially useful in combination with -P). If not specified and
$LOGDIR is set, use $LOGDIR/fcopy.log.
.TP
.BI "\-m " user,group,mode
Set user, group and mode for all copied files (mode as octal number, user and
group numeric id or name).  If not specified, use file file-modes or data of source file.
.TP
.BI "\-M "
Use default values for user, group and mode.  This is equal to -m root,root,0644
.TP
.BI "\-n "
Print the commands, but do not execute them. This is like --dry-run in
other programs. You can enable it for all calls of fcopy by setting
the environment variable $FCOPY_DRYRUN.
.TP
.BI "\-P " plog,changes
Don't compare files literally, but use information from files \fIplog\fR and \fIchanges\fR:
A file is overwritten when either another class applies (\fIplog\fR is a
log generated with -L in the previous run, so it now contains the necessary
information) or the version of SOURCE for the used class has changed
(\fIchanges\fR is checked for the appearance of the version itself, the
file-modes and the postinst of the particular SOURCE)
\fIchanges\fR is a file specifying line by line in the last column which
files have been changed, path has to be relative to $FAI, i.e. should begin
with 'files/'. This way, the logfile from cvs checkout could be used
directly.
If not given, $FCOPY_LASTLOG and $FCOPY_UPDATELOG are used for \fIplog\fR and
\fIchanges\fR.
.TP
.B \-r
Copy recursively (traverse down the tree).  Copy all files below
SOURCE.  These are all subdirectory leaves in the SOURCE tree.  Ignore
"ignored" directories (see "\-I" for details).
.TP
.BI "\-s " source_dir
Look for SOURCE files relative to \fIsource_dir\fR.  Use $FAI/files if
not specified.
.TP
.BI "\-t " target_dir
Copy files relative to \fItarget_dir\fR.  Use $FAI_ROOT if not specified.
.TP
.B \-U
If in softupdate mode skip this entire fcopy command.
.TP
.B \-v
Create verbose output.

.SH SCRIPTS
.TP
.B preinst
If a file 'preinst' exists and is executable, it is used in the following way:
.RS
.IP 1. 3
a temporary copy of the file for the used class is created
.IP 2. 3
preinst is called with the used class and the full pathname to this 
temporary copy (you can do in-place substitutions or other modifications on this
copy)
.IP 3. 3
the copy is compared to the destination and replaces it only if there are 
any differences
.RE

.TP
.B postinst
If a file 'postinst' exists and is executable, it is called after
successfully having copied the file with the class being used and the full
pathname to the target file. The variable ROOTCMD is set, so you can
prepend it to commands which should be executed in the newly installed system.

.SH EXAMPLES
.br
Suppose the source directory /files/etc/X11/XF86Config consists of the
following files:

CAD DEFAULT LAB MACH64 server1 faifoo file-modes postinst

Each file is an instance of a XF86Config file for a different
xserver configuration except file-modes,
which holds the file creation data.  The command

    # fcopy -s /files -t /target /etc/X11/XF86Config

copies one of these files from the directory /files/etc/X11/XF86Config to
the file /target/etc/XF86Config.  For all defined classes, fcopy looks if a
corresponding file exists.  The class with the highest priority will be used
for copying.  Here are examples of defined classes and the file which will be copied
by fcopy.

.sp
.nf
.ta 40n
      Defined classes	File used for copy

      DEFAULT,LAB,server3	LAB
      DEFAULT,CAD,server1	server1
      DEFAULT,MACH64,ant01	MACH64
      DEFAULT,TFT,ant13	DEFAULT
.sp
.fi
.PP

In FAI (look at SEE ALSO) the list of defined classes starts with DEFAULT and the
last class is the hostname.  So DEFAULT is only used when no file for
another class exists.  If a file is equal to the hostname, this
will be used, since hostname should always be the last class. 

User, group and permissions for the files can be defined in several
ways.  Option -m has the highest priority and will be used for all
files, if specified.  The file file-modes in the source directory can
contain one line for each class.  The space separated parameters are:

owner group mode class

where owner and group can be specified by numeric id or by name.  The
file permissions are defined by mode, which must be octal.  If class is
missing, the data is used for all other classes, for which no data is
defined.  If neither -m or file-modes data is available, the user,
group and mode of the source file will be used for the target file.

Missing subdirectories for the target file are created with mode
0755.  If the destination file already exists and is different from the
source file, the suffix .pre_fcopy is appended to the old version of
the target file.  If source and target files are equal, no copy is performed. 
A copied file gets the same access and modification time as the source file, not
the time of the copy.  If also the file postinst exists, it will be
executed after the file was copied.

.SH NOTES
Do not create a file DEFAULT if no reasonable default configuration file can be
used.  It's better to exit with an error than to copy a wrong
configuration file.

This command can also be used to maintain your configuration files on
a huge number of hosts.
.SH SEE ALSO
.br
This program is part of FAI (Fully Automatic Installation).  See the FAI manual
for more information on how to use fcopy.  The FAI homepage is http://www.informatik.uni-koeln.de/fai.

.SH AUTHOR
Thomas Lange <lange@informatik.uni-koeln.de>
