.\"                                      Hey, EMACS: -*- nroff -*-
.TH ftar 8 "Mar 30,2001"
.\" Please adjust this date whenever revising the manpage.
.\"
.\" Some roff macros, for reference:
.\" .nh        disable hyphenation
.\" .hy        enable hyphenation
.\" .ad l      left justify
.\" .ad b      justify to both left and right margins
.\" .nf        disable filling
.\" .fi        enable filling
.\" .br        insert line break
.\" .sp <n>    insert n+1 empty lines
.\" for manpage-specific macros, see man(7)
.SH NAME
ftar \- extract tar files using classes
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B ftar
.RI [ options ] " SOURCE" ...
.SH DESCRIPTION
Extract an archive from SOURCE to its target directory using classes.

Each SOURCE argument is a directory, which contains one or more
template files for the source archives to extract. Depending on the list of
defined classes, one or more archives of the source directory are selected and
extracted to the target. The base target directory is the name of the source
directory. Template file must have suffix .tar, .tar.gz or .tar.bz2
depending of the type of the archive.

The exit code returned by ftar is mostly 0. For every successfully
extracted tar file, a log message is printed to standard output.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
Options -c, -s, -t (or their analog variables) and a SOURCE are required.
.TP
.BI \-1
Use only the first archive file matching a class name.
.TP
.BI "\-c " class[class]
Define classes. Multiple classes must be space separated. Fisr class
has the highest priority. If not specified, use the classes from
the file /tmp/FAI_CLASES, where the last entry has highest priority.
.TP
.B \-d
Delete all files in target directory before extracting the archive(s).
.TP
.B \-D
Create debugging output.
.TP
.B \-h
Show help, version and summary of options.
.TP
.B \-r
Recursively remove files in target directory before extracting archive.
.TP
.BI "\-s " source_dir
Look for SOURCE files relative to \fIsource_dir\fR. Use $FAI_FILES if
not specified.
.TP
.BI "\-t " target_dir
Extract archives relativ to \fItarget_dir\fR. Use $FAI_ROOT if not specified.
.TP
.B \-v
Be verbose. Not yet used.


.SH EXAMPLES
.br
Suppose the source directory /files/etc/alternatives consists of following files:

DATALESS.tar.gz faiclient01.tar.bz2

Each file is a compressed archive. If only class DATALESS is defined,
the following command

   # ftar -s /files -t /tmp/target /etc/alternatives

is equal to

   # tar -C /tmp/target -zxf /files/etc/alternatives/DATALESS.tar.gz

If additionally class faiclient01 is defined, following command is also executed

   # tar -C /tmp/target -Ixf /files/etc/alternatives/faiclient01.tar.bz2

If only one archive should be extracted, the class with highest
priority is used.

.SH NOTES
Do not create a file DEFAULT, if no reasonable default configuration file can be
used. It's better to exit with an error, than to extract a wrong
archive.

This command can also be used to maintain your complete directory trees on
a huge number of hosts.
.SH SEE ALSO
.br
The programs is part of FAI (fully automatic installation). See the FAI manual
for more information how to use ftar. The FAI homepage is http://www.informatik.uni-koeln.de/fai.

.SH AUTHOR
Thomas Lange <lange@informatik.uni-koeln.de>
