.\"                                      Hey, EMACS: -*- nroff -*-
.if \n(zZ=1 .ig zZ
.if \n(zY=1 .ig zY
.TH install_packages 8 "16 september 2008" "FAI 3.2"
.\" Please adjust this date whenever revising the manpage.
.\"
.\" Some roff macros, for reference:
.\" .nh        disable hyphenation
.\" .hy        enable hyphenation
.\" .ad l      left justify
.\" .ad b      justify to both left and right margins
.\" .nf        disable filling
.\" .fi        enable filling
.\" .br        insert line break
.\" .sp <n>    insert n+1 empty lines
.\" for manpage-specific macros, see man(7)
.de }1
.ds ]X \&\\*(]B\\
.nr )E 0
.if !"\\$1"" .nr )I \\$1n
.}f
.ll \\n(LLu
.in \\n()Ru+\\n(INu+\\n()Iu
.ti \\n(INu
.ie !\\n()Iu+\\n()Ru-\w\\*(]Xu-3p \{\\*(]X
.br\}
.el \\*(]X\h|\\n()Iu+\\n()Ru\c
.}f
..
.\"
.\" File Name macro.  This used to be `.PN', for Path Name,
.\" but Sun doesn't seem to like that very much.
.\"
.de FN
\fI\|\\$1\|\fP
..
.SH NAME
install_packages \- install FAI configured packages
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B install_packages
.SH DESCRIPTION
Fully Automatic Installation (FAI) is used to provide unattended installation of
Debian GNU/Linux operating systems with a very flexible class-based system.
install_packages is a Perl script written for FAI to selectively install, hold,
remove, or purge packages or tasks.

install_packages is called from the fai installation script and should not be
called directly.  Its function is to parse the package_config files based on
the class definitions of the client.  For example, if the client belonged to
the SMTPSERVER class, install_packages would parse ../package_config/SMTPSERVER
for instructions on what packages to install, hold, remove, or purge.

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-d
Only download packages instead of installing them. Variable
$aptoptions must be set.
.TP
.B \-h
Show help, version and summary of options.
.TP
.B \-H
Show list of all available commands for the file in package_config.
.TP
.B \-l
Print only the list of all packages that would be installed, then exit.
.TP
.B \-L
Print the list of all packages with version number that would be installed, then exit.
.TP
.B \-m MAX
Install only MAX packages at a time. Same as setting the shell
environment variable MAXPACKAGES.
.TP
.BI "\-n "
Dry run. Do not execute installation commands, just print them.
.TP
.B \-N
Do not check package names if they are valid.
.TP
.BI "\-p " DIRECTORY
Read the configuration files from DIRECTORY instead of $FAI/packages_config.
.TP
.B \-v
Be verbose.


.SH NOTES
.PD 0
install_packages expects to find the FAI_ROOT directory, the location of class
definitions, package configurations, and custom install scripts, somewhere in
the filesystem.  This location is configurable in /etc/fai/fai.conf and defaults to
/srv/fai/config.
.PD
.SH SEE ALSO
.PD 0
\fIapt\fP(1), \fIaptitude\fP(8), \fIapt-get\fP(8), \fIdpkg\fP(8), \fItasksel\fP(1)

This program is part of FAI (Fully Automatic Installation). See the FAI manual
for more information on how to use install_packages. The FAI homepage is
http://www.informatik.uni-koeln.de/fai.
.PD
.SH FILES
.PD 0
.TP
.FN /etc/fai/fai.conf
The FAI configuration file.

.TP
.FN /srv/fai/config/package_config/
The FAI package configuration directory.

.SH AUTHOR
Thomas Lange <lange@informatik.uni-koeln.de>
