.\"                                      Hey, EMACS: -*- nroff -*-
.if \n(zZ=1 .ig zZ
.if \n(zY=1 .ig zY
.TH make-fai-nfsroot 8 "10 june 2007" "FAI 3.2"
.de }1
.ds ]X \&\\*(]B\\
.nr )E 0
.if !"\\$1"" .nr )I \\$1n
.}f
.ll \\n(LLu
.in \\n()Ru+\\n(INu+\\n()Iu
.ti \\n(INu
.ie !\\n()Iu+\\n()Ru-\w\\*(]Xu-3p \{\\*(]X
.br\}
.el \\*(]X\h|\\n()Iu+\\n()Ru\c
.}f
..
.\"
.\" File Name macro.  This used to be `.PN', for Path Name,
.\" but Sun doesn't seem to like that very much.
.\"
.de FN
\fI\|\\$1\|\fP
..
.SH NAME
make-fai-nfsroot \- create the FAI nfsroot directory
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B make-fai-nfsroot
.RI [ options ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
Create the FAI nfsroot directory as pointed by $NFSROOT in the
config_file.  This directory is necessary for the installation of
Debian on remote clients using the FAI package. The config_file
location is discussed in the OPTIONS below.

The exit code returned is 0 if all commands to build the root directory exited
successfully and >0 if an error occurs.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-C CFDIR
Use CFDIR as configuration directory. Default is /etc/fai.
.TP
.B \-f config_file
Not supported any more. Use option -C instead.
.TP
.B \-K
Remove all kernels from NFSROOT, then install a new kernel into the nfsroot (like -k)
.TP
.B \-k
Install a new kernel from $KERNELPACKAGE into the nfsroot and resetup
BOOTP and DHCP environments in /srv/tftp/fai.
.TP
.B \-p
Preserve ssh keys. This will preserve the whole .ssh directory of the
root account inside the nfsroot.
.TP
.B \-V KERNELNAME
Use KERNELNAME when copying the install kernel to /srv/fai/tftp. Default is vmlinuz-install.
.TP
.B \-v
Create verbose output on stdout.
.TP
.BI \-h
Show simple help.
.TP
.B \-r
Attempt to recover a previously failed run of this command.  

.SH NOTES
.PD 0
If you do not use NFS, you may still use the NFSROOT
directory as a staging point for building the base installation tarball.  

.SH RECOVERY
.PD 0
.B CAUTION!
This is an advanced feature.  You should be willing to open up an
editor and browse the make-fai-nfsroot code to understand what each task
does and how your use of the recovery option can be impacted by fiddling
around with the stamp files.

You can call make-fai-nfsroot with the '-r' option to attempt a recovery of
a previous run.  As tasks are completed, stamp files are generated in
/var/run/fai/make-fai-nfsroot.  As each task is called in recovery mode, the
stamp file is checked.  If it exists, the task is skipped.  This will save
you much time during your initial install and debug phase.  It is not a very
sophisticated mechanism but it can help you on updating the nfsroot as
well.  For example, if you want to update the kernel that is installed,
remove the following stamp files: install_kernel_nfsroot_stamp,
setup_bootp_stamp, setup_dhcp_stamp.

The order in which the stamp files are created are as follows:

.TP
.B call_debootstrap_stamp
Debootstrap was called successfully.

.TP
.B create_base_stamp
Created after successfully calling debootstrap plus a couple of other tasks.

.TP
.B upgrade_nfsroot_stamp
The packages in $NFSROOT have successfully been upgraded with apt.

.TP
.B add_packages_nfsroot_stamp
New packages have been installed with apt as specified by the $NFSPACKAGES
environment variable in /etc/fai/fai.conf.

.TP
.B copy_fai_files_stamp
FAI copies a base of files to the NFSROOT directory.

.TP
.B setup_ssh_stamp
The SSH environment is set up.  You could probably remove this stamp alone
to refresh your ssh setup.

.TP
.B create_nfsroot_stamp
This stamp file is created when all the preceeding steps have been taken.
You have a base nfsroot directory.  All you need now is the kernel and the
BOOTP or DHCP setup.

.TP
.B install_kernel_nfsroot_stamp
The kernel you specified in $KERNELPACKAGE has been installed.

.TP
.B setup_bootp_stamp | setup_dhcp_stamp
Your kernel was either BOOTP or DHCP.  The appropriate setup has been completed.

.PD
.SH SEE ALSO
.PD 0
This program is part of FAI (Fully Automatic Installation).  See the FAI manual
for more information on how to use make-fai-nfsroot.  The FAI homepage is
http://www.informatik.uni-koeln.de/fai.
.TP
\fImake-fai-bootfloppy\fP(8), \fIexports\fP(5), \fInfsd\fP(8), \fIfai-setup\fP(8)
.PD
.SH FILES
.PD 0
.TP
.FN /etc/fai/fai.conf
The FAI configuration file.
.TP
.FN /etc/fai/make-fai-nfsroot.conf
The configuration file for make-fai-nfsroot.
.PD 0
.TP
.FN /etc/fai/apt/sources.list
Copy this file to the NFSROOT.
.PD 0
.TP
.FN /var/run/fai/make-fai-nfsroot/*-stamp
Stamp files used for recovery.

.SH AUTHOR
Thomas Lange <lange@informatik.uni-koeln.de>
