.\"                                      Hey, EMACS: -*- nroff -*-
.if \n(zZ=1 .ig zZ
.if \n(zY=1 .ig zY
.TH make-fai-bootfloppy 8 "26 February 2004" "FAI 2.5.4"
.de }1
.ds ]X \&\\*(]B\\
.nr )E 0
.if !"\\$1"" .nr )I \\$1n
.}f
.ll \\n(LLu
.in \\n()Ru+\\n(INu+\\n()Iu
.ti \\n(INu
.ie !\\n()Iu+\\n()Ru-\w\\*(]Xu-3p \{\\*(]X
.br\}
.el \\*(]X\h|\\n()Iu+\\n()Ru\c
.}f
..
.\"
.\" File Name macro.  This used to be `.PN', for Path Name,
.\" but Sun doesn't seem to like that very much.
.\"
.de FN
\fI\|\\$1\|\fP
..
.SH NAME
make-fai-bootfloppy \- create a FAI boot floppy
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B make-fai-bootfloppy
[OPTIONS] [<kernel parameters>]
.SH DESCRIPTION
Creates a boot floppy for the Fully Automatic Installation (FAI)
package. This shell-script wrapper simplifies the complexities of
creating a FAI boot disk for use with DHCP or BOOTP protocols.  It
creates a bootfloppy using grub (default) or lilo as boot loader. The
installation kernel is also put onto the floppy disk which supports
DHCP, BOOTP protocol and a fixed IP address for the installation
server. All parameters are used as additional kernel parameters.

The exit code returned is 0 if all commands to build the root directory exited
successfully and >0 if an error occurs.
.SH OPTIONS

.TP
.B \-c CFDIR
Use CFDIR instead of /etc/fai for reading the config file fai.conf.
.TP
.B \-d LABEL

Use LABEL when selection the default boot kernel (and parameters).
Possible values of LABEL:
  a for any: the linux kernel will try all compiled in protocols in turn, until one succeeds;
  b for BOOTP;
  d for DHCP;
  f for using a fixed IP address on the FAI client (see option '-s');
  r for RARP.

Without this option, the kernel setting 'ip=dhcp is used.
.TP
.B \-F
Append default flags to kernel parameters. Same as
"FAI_FLAGS=verbose,sshd,createvt,syslogd"
.TP
.B \-f FILE
Make a 1440k floppy image in FILE.
.TP
.B \-i FILE
Make a 1440k iso9660 image in FILE (requires also -f FILE).
.TP
.B \-g
Use GRUB as boot loader (default).
.TP
.B \-l
Use LILO as boot loader.
.TP
.B \-m DIR
Use DIR as mountpoint for either floppy device or file.  Defaults to /floppy.
.TP
.B \-s HOST
Prepare a host specific bootfloppy which will boot the kernel with the fixed
IP of HOST (i.e., insert network configuration into kernel command line's
"ip=" statement).  All necessary data are gethered by DNS A lookup.
.TP
.B "-v"
Print verbose output

.SH EXAMPLES

Create a generic boot floppy for James ;-)
  
# make-fai-bootfloppy "FAI_FLAGS=sshd,createvt BOND=007"
  
Make a common floppy which uses the DHCP protocol as default, some common flags and action sysinfo

Create a bootable cdrom image, that can be burned using cdrecord(1)

# make-fai-bootfloppy -f /tmp/fai_floppy.img -i /tmp/fai_iso.img "FAI_FLAGS=sshd,createvt"

Make a common floppy which uses the DHCP protocol as default, some common flags and action sysinfo

# make-fai-bootfloppy -vF FAI_ACTION=sysinfo

Make a boot floppy with fixed IP adress, enable verbose messages and
additional terminals.

# make-fai-bootfloppy -l -d f "10.0.2.5:10.0.2.1:10.0.0.1: 255.255.0.0:client5:eth0:off FAI_FLAGS=verbose,createvt"

To make a boot floppy for my old SMC EtherCard Plus Elite 16T, I use

# make-fai-bootfloppy "reserve=0x300,32 ether=10,0x300,eth0"
.fi

.SH NOTES
.PD 0
make-fai-bootfloppy will attempt to access /dev/fd0 unless the option
-f is used.  IT IS NOT DEVFSD compatible unless your devfsd
installation remaps the floppy device to the common device alias /dev/fd0.
.PD
.SH SEE ALSO
.PD 0
This program is part of FAI (Fully Automatic Installation).  See the FAI manual
for more information on how to use make-fai-bootfloppy.  The FAI homepage is
http://www.informatik.uni-koeln.de/fai.
.PD
.SH FILES
.PD 0
.TP
.FN /etc/fai/fai.conf
.TP
.FN CFDIR/fai.conf
The FAI configuration file. CFDIR is set with option -c

.SH AUTHOR
Thomas Lange <lange@informatik.uni-koeln.de>
